Cassandra
	NoSQL db with ACID properties and high availbility
	Uses dynamo db distribution technique + google big table data model
	Columnar data store


	How data partitions to node with partitioner
		Md5 hashing
		V nodes
	Replication :
		SimpleStrategy
			Just creates rf copies in subsequent nodes
		NetowrkTopology
			Can put different rf in DC basis
		hintedhandoff:
			Buffer data in cordinator for down nodes
			configurable in cassandrayaml
			hintedhandoff : True
			max_hint_window : Time for which cordinator buffer data until one node down.
	Consistency Level
		Guarantee of data to be the correct ( latest )
			read :
				Will check for other nodes if data is updated before ack
			write:
				Wait for all/consistency level nodes acknowldgment before acknwlging client.

Data Model : 

	Partition =  row  - Only in case of single primary key
	primary key composed of more than 1 column it is not the case.

	Fast read : 
		By choping data with primary key selection and proper clustering key.
	Fast write : 
		Same for fast read 
	Clustering orderby within partition 


Data Type : 
	User defined type 
		create type and alter type
		Frozen keyword : For writing whole fields once.

Datastax DevCenter : 

DML : 

	Update , Insert & Upsert 

		Upsert : 
			There is no error in cassandra for doing duplicate insert.

		Light Weight Transaction : LWT 
			Increases perfomance for insert and updates.
			IF EXIST and IF column = value 
		TTL 
			USING TTL 84000


	BATCH : 
		All the staments in batch are given same timestamp.
			Since the order in batch is not guaranteed multiple DML in same partition may cause issues and should take care.
		ACID can be met with batch and LWT ( Need expoorations)

	Allow Filtering : 

		We can specify to allow filter through the clustering keys.
		Preceeding cloumn thing on filtering with multi keys in clustering columns.

	Order by clause : 

		Order by should be spcified in clustering column while defining table.
		After that we have the option to reverse the same.
	Functions : 
		minTimeUUId and maxTimeUUID , token(), now() -  Generated @ cordinator,

Data Modelling : 

	Main Point is Anticipate the queries and then model table accordingly.
	1- Conceptual Data Modelling : 
		Involves creation of ER diagram.
		Nothing related to cassandra but in general.
	2- Logical Data Modelling : 
		Conversion Conceptual to logical. Changing relation to Access pattern ( Query wise approach in fulfilling functionality)
		Will contain english explanation of queries.
		Defining Coulmn families in box.
	3- Physical Data Model : 
		Add actual data type and validate write conflicts and all in logical model.







